Initially web pages displayed in very simple fashion you had one page per year now if your Web site
had multiple pages you would simply add another HVM Alpha Multiple a similar files.
For example if you had a home page and about page you'd have a home Daut HMO and an about 8 e-mail page
and you'd have an anchor tag or an eight tag and you're a shemale that would link these two pages together.
This means that if you clicked on the about link in the home page then a request would be made out to
the server to get the about a shemale and display it on the browser but that was the past.
And now there's multiple ways to do something like this.
And in this section we're going to talk about that about single page applications versus server side
rendered applications.
Let's go take a look at how Web sites used to be right here we have the very first web page that was
ever created by Tim Berners-Lee while he was working at CERN.
If you look up at the you are Albar over here as I click on different things.
A new file is generated
and every time I switch links a request is made to the browser.
Let's have a look.
If I go to my network tab and I click on what's out there I get naked female page another a shemale
page if I go back again another request and another request.
And this was the way things worked.
Life was good.
Life was easy because this was the conventional method of getting your HMO up onto a screen by using
server side rendering server side rendering worked great at the time too.
Because all we did was just render the ASTM I'll send it to the client which is their web browser and
the browser would create that Dom and render it on the page.
And server side rendering work great.
At the time too since most web pages back then were just displaying static images and text with very
little to do with interactivity.
Once I click on a link here and the request goes to the server the request is then finished processing
and your browser gets back a fully rendered him l so that it can display it on the screen.
And like you saw before if I click on a different page than your browser will make that same process
again make request.
The server always will process a request send back a fully rendered Jimoh and then the browser will
read that ASTM Alpha.
And this occurs each and every time you visit a page it doesn't even matter if one of these pages was
very similar to the other and maybe we don't need this title to be read rendered again that doesn't
really matter.
The browser will always ask for the entire page and will render everything on the page.
So all was good back then.
But wait CSSA and Javascript came around and people started making their websites do more things than
just display text and images.
CSSA added styles and colors.
But javascript came along and added a whole lot more.
Since then something called single page applications or espies had become more and more popular.
Something like product on over here these single page applications will just have one ACM Alpha and
the rest such as navigating between links
or navigating between pages is done inside the javascript programmatically.
You no longer need to go to the server to request a new page every time.
Sounds pretty sweet right.
I can just play around and the page doesn't refresh just parts of the page refresh that I need and everything
is nice and fast to so because of this single page applications became more and more powerful because
you could argue that Web sites these days are a lot more like applications than just Web sites that
we had back then.
And the idea of a single page application or a client side rendered application vs a server side application
was really popularized in javascript lent by libraries like angular one backbone and reac because you
avoided this constant request to the server to change pages and update only parts of the page that you
actually need and things looked a lot faster.
As you can see here again modern web sites are not simple modern web sites have hundreds of lines of
code and are much more complex imagining how we would browse a web page and having to wait for each
and every page to render when navigating a site like we would have to with server side rendering would
be a huge headache.
By the way this is the experience you get with older WordPress websites where every time you click on
a page you wait staring at a blank screen for that new page to load.
They have a ton of javascript but it's a server side rendered Web site.
All right.
So client side rendering is the way of the future single page applications when Let's scrap server side
rendering forever.
We're done here.
Wait just a second.
We should know by now that too much of anything is not good for you.
You see there are two major issues when it comes to single page applications.
One is that more Javascript is sent to the client on the initial request.
Because again we have hundreds of lines of code because javascript takes care of the routing and the
pages and the views for us so it takes longer for the javascript to get sent and then to execute pages
become more bloated and slower to load.
Because of this the second issue is SVO performance or search engine optimization.
It's a lot harder to do good SEO on a single page application than a server side rendered application
and we'll get into that.
We're going to talk about all the details between what we like to call client side rendering which are
what single page applications are and server side rendered applications with each one of them having
pros and cons in this section.
We're going to be able to decide when we need to do one over the other and give Brunow the right decision
for the road befriends product.
We're also going to play with some really fun server side rendering libraries.
Time to get started.
I'll see you on site.